Add MySQL to the Mix
==========================

### Update parameters.yml.dist

[ see: [boilerplate / parameters.yml.dist](boilerplate/parameters.yml.dist) ] 

Conventionally `parameters.yml` is kept out of your repo because parameters usually vary between machines. Defaults are nice, so Symfony 2.3 <a href="http://symfony.com/blog/new-in-symfony-2-3-interactive-management-of-the-parameters-yml-file" target="_new">includes an install script</a> which allows you to customize the default values in a template called `parameters.yml.dist`. Take full advantage of this behavior when configuring our databases.

```
$ $EDITOR app/config/parameters.yml.dist
```
replace contents with:

```
parameters:

    database_driver   : pdo_mysql
    database_name     : %database.name%    
    database_host     : %database.host%
    database_port     : %database.port%
    database_user     : %database.user%
    database_password : %database.pass%
    
    mailer_transport  : smtp
    mailer_host       : 127.0.0.1
    mailer_user       : null
    mailer_password   : null
    
    locale : en
    secret : %general.secret%
```
The values marked with percentage signs `%` are <a href="http://symfony.com/doc/current/cookbook/configuration/external_parameters.html" target="_new">environment variables</a> which will be explained in detail next.

### Local Environment Variables

Now that parameters.yml depends on environments vars we need to create them in each environment. Generally the command line and Apache need independent methods of setting these variables.

### For your local shell — envars.sh

[ see: [boilerplate / envars.sh](https://github.com/mfdj/symfony2-on-pagodabox/blob/master/boilerplate/envars.sh) ]

Add `envars.sh` to .gitignore and start editing:

```
$ sed -i.orig -e '$a\' .gitignore && echo 'envars.sh' >> .gitignore && rm .gitignore.orig && $EDITOR envars.sh
```
use this template to start `envars.sh`:

```
#!/bin/bash
export SYMFONY__DATABASE__NAME=~
export SYMFONY__DATABASE__HOST=localhost
export SYMFONY__DATABASE__PORT=3306
export SYMFONY__DATABASE__USER=~
export SYMFONY__DATABASE__PASS=~
```
…fill in appropriate values for your local environment. Make sure there are no spaces, example: `export SYMFONY__DATABASE__NAME=fresh`. If you don't need database access or don't yet have credentials the convention is to use `~` to indicate an empty value.

Run the script:

```
$ . ./envars.sh
```
… now the shell has access to these variables, crucial for running `app/console` commands (since a missing parameter will cause a fatal error).

Run `envars.sh` each shell session you work on the project. Ideally I'll figure out how to do this automatically whenever app/console is run.

### For local Apache — SetEnv in httpd.conf

Since the command line and web server are different processes we'll make the same values available to Apache with the `SetEnv` directive.

```
SetEnv  SYMFONY__DATABASE__NAME ~
SetEnv  SYMFONY__DATABASE__HOST localhost
SetEnv  SYMFONY__DATABASE__PORT 3306
SetEnv  SYMFONY__DATABASE__USER ~
SetEnv  SYMFONY__DATABASE__PASS ~
SetEnv  SYMFONY__GENERAL__SECRET AnotherSecret
```
Update each value to match `envars.sh` (notice no equals sign here) and add these directives to your <a href="http://symfony.com/doc/current/cookbook/configuration/external_parameters.html" target="_new">VirtualHost</a> in httpd.conf (might work in .htaccess too?)

Since you're already in VirtualHost, double check your DocumentRoot points at the `web` folder of your project `DocumentRoot '/the/path/to/fresh/web'`.

Restart the server to make the changes available.

### Remove parameters.yml and re-install

```
$ rm app/config/parameters.yml; composer install --no-interaction
```
To recap, when running composer install/update `parameters.yml.dist` provides default values used to generate `parameters.yml`.  If parameters.yml already has a key/value set that key is skipped by the script (heads up for future install/updates).

## Keeping composer.lock udpated

Sometimes you'll see the message: 

`Warning: The lock file is not up to date with the latest changes in composer.json. You may be getting outdated dependencies. Run update to update them.`

The simplest way to remedy this error is to run:

`$ composer update --lock`

This is prone to happening whenever you change composer.json directly, instead of interacting via Composer's commands. [Just a single whitespace character can invalidate composer.json](http://moquet.net/blog/5-features-about-composer-php/#1_update_only_one_vendor), and running `composer update --lock` can fix this and other discrepancies.

### Simplify local secret management

To simplify local configuration you can sidestep dealing with `SYMFONY__GENERAL__SECRET` and hardcode a secret in `parameters.yml` with this one-liner:

```
$ SECRET=`md5 -s '[YOUR PHRASE]' | sed s/'.* = '/''/` && sed -i.orig s/'secret.*$'/"secret: $SECRET"/ app/config/parameters.yml && rm app/config/parameters.yml.orig
```
To be tidy you can remove `SYMFONY__GENERAL__SECRET` from `envars.sh` and `httpd.conf` — but only those two, leave it in `parameters.yml.dist`.

### In PagodaBox create a database, grab the credentials, set Environment Vars

Go back to your PagodaBox dashboard and select your app

- click Add Database
- select Mysql
- select Cloud (which is free)
- enter a memorable name

Once your new database is created it will show in the dashboard (sometimes the UI hangs, just refresh after a minute).

- click your database (manage)
- below, click Show Credentials
- copy the database name, path, user, pass

With values in hand look above and click "Environment Vars" and "Add Another" for each of the following keys, applying the values for your database:

- `SYMFONY__DATABASE__NAME`
- `SYMFONY__DATABASE__HOST` (*path*, left of the colon)
- `SYMFONY__DATABASE__PORT` (*path*, right of the colon)
- `SYMFONY__DATABASE__USER`
- `SYMFONY__DATABASE__PASS`

Now, add the last var:

- `SYMFONY__GENERAL__SECRET`<br/>try this one-liner to create a value `$ md5 -s '[YOUR PHRASE]' | sed s/'.* = '/''/` 

By keeping these values out of your repository you get cleaner deployments and centralized credentials.

Back local, let's put some fake data in the database

### DoctrineFixtures


Get fixtures (since we're going to use a dev-branch we'll loosen minimum-stability)

```
$ $EDITOR composer.json 
```
```
…
   "minimum-stability": "dev",
…
```

```
$ composer require "doctrine/doctrine-fixtures-bundle" master-dev
```

Create Database (or start over first `$ php app/console doctrine:database:drop --force`)

```
$ php app/console doctrine:database:create
```
Generate entity
```
$ php app/console doctrine:generate:entity --entity=HelloBundle:Post --fields="title:string(255) body:text" --no-interaction
```